doc/python_api/rst/bge_types/bge.types.BL_Shader.rst, before:

BL_Shader(PyObjectPlus)
=======================

.. module:: bge.types

base class --- :class:`PyObjectPlus`

.. class:: BL_Shader(PyObjectPlus)

   BL_Shader GLSL shaders.

   TODO - Description

   .. method:: setUniformfv(name, fList)

      Set a uniform with a list of float values

      :arg name: the uniform name
      :type name: string
      :arg fList: a list (2, 3 or 4 elements) of float values
      :type fList: list[float]

   .. method:: delSource()

      Clear the shader. Use this method before the source is changed with :data:`setSource`.

   .. method:: getFragmentProg()

      Returns the fragment program.

      :return: The fragment program.
      :rtype: string

   .. method:: getVertexProg()

      Get the vertex program.

      :return: The vertex program.
      :rtype: string

   .. method:: isValid()

      Check if the shader is valid.

      :return: True if the shader is valid
      :rtype: boolean

   .. method:: setAttrib(enum)

      Set attribute location. (The parameter is ignored a.t.m. and the value of "tangent" is always used.)

      :arg enum: attribute location value
      :type enum: integer

   .. method:: setNumberOfPasses( max_pass )

      Set the maximum number of passes. Not used a.t.m.

      :arg max_pass: the maximum number of passes
      :type max_pass: integer

   .. method:: setSampler(name, index)

      Set uniform texture sample index.

      :arg name: Uniform name
      :type name: string
      :arg index: Texture sample index.
      :type index: integer

   .. method:: setSource(vertexProgram, fragmentProgram)

      Set the vertex and fragment programs

      :arg vertexProgram: Vertex program
      :type vertexProgram: string
      :arg fragmentProgram: Fragment program
      :type fragmentProgram: string

   .. method:: setUniform1f(name, fx)

      Set a uniform with 1 float value.

      :arg name: the uniform name
      :type name: string
      :arg fx: Uniform value
      :type fx: float

   .. method:: setUniform1i(name, ix)

      Set a uniform with an integer value.

      :arg name: the uniform name
      :type name: string
      :arg ix: the uniform value
      :type ix: integer

   .. method:: setUniform2f(name, fx, fy)

      Set a uniform with 2 float values

      :arg name: the uniform name
      :type name: string
      :arg fx: first float value
      :type fx: float

      :arg fy: second float value
      :type fy: float

   .. method:: setUniform2i(name, ix, iy)

      Set a uniform with 2 integer values

      :arg name: the uniform name
      :type name: string
      :arg ix: first integer value
      :type ix: integer
      :arg iy: second integer value
      :type iy: integer

   .. method:: setUniform3f(name, fx, fy, fz)

      Set a uniform with 3 float values.

      :arg name: the uniform name
      :type name: string
      :arg fx: first float value
      :type fx: float
      :arg fy: second float value
      :type fy: float
      :arg fz: third float value
      :type fz: float

   .. method:: setUniform3i(name, ix, iy, iz)

      Set a uniform with 3 integer values

      :arg name: the uniform name
      :type name: string
      :arg ix: first integer value
      :type ix: integer
      :arg iy: second integer value
      :type iy: integer
      :arg iz: third integer value
      :type iz: integer

   .. method:: setUniform4f(name, fx, fy, fz, fw)

      Set a uniform with 4 float values.

      :arg name: the uniform name
      :type name: string
      :arg fx: first float value
      :type fx: float
      :arg fy: second float value
      :type fy: float
      :arg fz: third float value
      :type fz: float
      :arg fw: fourth float value
      :type fw: float

   .. method:: setUniform4i(name, ix, iy, iz, iw)

      Set a uniform with 4 integer values

      :arg name: the uniform name
      :type name: string
      :arg ix: first integer value
      :type ix: integer
      :arg iy: second integer value
      :type iy: integer
      :arg iz: third integer value
      :type iz: integer
      :arg iw: fourth integer value
      :type iw: integer

   .. method:: setUniformDef(name, type)

      Define a new uniform

      :arg name: the uniform name
      :type name: string
      :arg type: uniform type
      :type type: UNI_NONE, UNI_INT, UNI_FLOAT, UNI_INT2, UNI_FLOAT2, UNI_INT3, UNI_FLOAT3, UNI_INT4, UNI_FLOAT4, UNI_MAT3, UNI_MAT4, UNI_MAX

   .. method:: setUniformMatrix3(name, mat, transpose)

      Set a uniform with a 3x3 matrix value

      :arg name: the uniform name
      :type name: string
      :arg mat: A 3x3 matrix [[f, f, f], [f, f, f], [f, f, f]]
      :type mat: 3x3 matrix
      :arg transpose: set to True to transpose the matrix
      :type transpose: boolean

   .. method:: setUniformMatrix4(name, mat, transpose)

      Set a uniform with a 4x4 matrix value

      :arg name: the uniform name
      :type name: string
      :arg mat: A 4x4 matrix [[f, f, f, f], [f, f, f, f], [f, f, f, f], [f, f, f, f]]
      :type mat: 4x4 matrix
      :arg transpose: set to True to transpose the matrix
      :type transpose: boolean

   .. method:: setUniformiv(name, iList)

      Set a uniform with a list of integer values

      :arg name: the uniform name
      :type name: string
      :arg iList: a list (2, 3 or 4 elements) of integer values
      :type iList: list[integer]

   .. method:: validate()

      Validate the shader object.

Commit message:

BL_Shader.setUniformEyef(name)
    defines a uniform that reflects the eye being rendered in stereo mode:
    0.0 for the left eye, 0.5 for the right eye.
    In non stereo mode, the value of the uniform is fixed to 0.0.
    The typical use of this uniform is in stereo mode to sample stereo textures
    containing the left and right eye images in a top-bottom order.

    python:
      shader = obj.meshes[0].materials[mat].getShader()
      shader.setUniformEyef("eye")

    shader:
      uniform float eye;
      uniform sampler2D tex;
      void main(void)
      {
         vec4 color;
         float ty, tx;
         tx = gl_TexCoord[0].x;
         ty = eye+gl_TexCoord[0].y*0.5;
         // ty will be between 0 and 0.5 for the left eye render
         // and 0.5 and 1.0 for the right eye render.
         color = texture(tex, vec2(tx, ty));
         ...
      }

doc/python_api/rst/bge_types/bge.types.BL_Shader.rst, after:

BL_Shader(PyObjectPlus)
=======================

.. module:: bge.types

base class --- :class:`PyObjectPlus`

.. class:: BL_Shader(PyObjectPlus)

   BL_Shader GLSL shaders.

   TODO - Description

   .. method:: setUniformfv(name, fList)

      Set a uniform with a list of float values

      :arg name: the uniform name
      :type name: string
      :arg fList: a list (2, 3 or 4 elements) of float values
      :type fList: list[float]

   .. method:: delSource()

      Clear the shader. Use this method before the source is changed with :data:`setSource`.

   .. method:: getFragmentProg()

      Returns the fragment program.

      :return: The fragment program.
      :rtype: string

   .. method:: getVertexProg()

      Get the vertex program.

      :return: The vertex program.
      :rtype: string

   .. method:: isValid()

      Check if the shader is valid.

      :return: True if the shader is valid
      :rtype: boolean

   .. method:: setAttrib(enum)

      Set attribute location. (The parameter is ignored a.t.m. and the value of "tangent" is always used.)

      :arg enum: attribute location value
      :type enum: integer

   .. method:: setNumberOfPasses( max_pass )

      Set the maximum number of passes. Not used a.t.m.

      :arg max_pass: the maximum number of passes
      :type max_pass: integer

   .. method:: setSampler(name, index)

      Set uniform texture sample index.

      :arg name: Uniform name
      :type name: string
      :arg index: Texture sample index.
      :type index: integer

   .. method:: setSource(vertexProgram, fragmentProgram)

      Set the vertex and fragment programs

      :arg vertexProgram: Vertex program
      :type vertexProgram: string
      :arg fragmentProgram: Fragment program
      :type fragmentProgram: string

   .. method:: setUniform1f(name, fx)

      Set a uniform with 1 float value.

      :arg name: the uniform name
      :type name: string
      :arg fx: Uniform value
      :type fx: float

   .. method:: setUniform1i(name, ix)

      Set a uniform with an integer value.

      :arg name: the uniform name
      :type name: string
      :arg ix: the uniform value
      :type ix: integer

   .. method:: setUniform2f(name, fx, fy)

      Set a uniform with 2 float values

      :arg name: the uniform name
      :type name: string
      :arg fx: first float value
      :type fx: float

      :arg fy: second float value
      :type fy: float

   .. method:: setUniform2i(name, ix, iy)

      Set a uniform with 2 integer values

      :arg name: the uniform name
      :type name: string
      :arg ix: first integer value
      :type ix: integer
      :arg iy: second integer value
      :type iy: integer

   .. method:: setUniform3f(name, fx, fy, fz)

      Set a uniform with 3 float values.

      :arg name: the uniform name
      :type name: string
      :arg fx: first float value
      :type fx: float
      :arg fy: second float value
      :type fy: float
      :arg fz: third float value
      :type fz: float

   .. method:: setUniform3i(name, ix, iy, iz)

      Set a uniform with 3 integer values

      :arg name: the uniform name
      :type name: string
      :arg ix: first integer value
      :type ix: integer
      :arg iy: second integer value
      :type iy: integer
      :arg iz: third integer value
      :type iz: integer

   .. method:: setUniform4f(name, fx, fy, fz, fw)

      Set a uniform with 4 float values.

      :arg name: the uniform name
      :type name: string
      :arg fx: first float value
      :type fx: float
      :arg fy: second float value
      :type fy: float
      :arg fz: third float value
      :type fz: float
      :arg fw: fourth float value
      :type fw: float

   .. method:: setUniform4i(name, ix, iy, iz, iw)

      Set a uniform with 4 integer values

      :arg name: the uniform name
      :type name: string
      :arg ix: first integer value
      :type ix: integer
      :arg iy: second integer value
      :type iy: integer
      :arg iz: third integer value
      :type iz: integer
      :arg iw: fourth integer value
      :type iw: integer

   .. method:: setUniformDef(name, type)

      Define a new uniform

      :arg name: the uniform name
      :type name: string
      :arg type: uniform type
      :type type: UNI_NONE, UNI_INT, UNI_FLOAT, UNI_INT2, UNI_FLOAT2, UNI_INT3, UNI_FLOAT3, UNI_INT4, UNI_FLOAT4, UNI_MAT3, UNI_MAT4, UNI_MAX

   .. method:: setUniformMatrix3(name, mat, transpose)

      Set a uniform with a 3x3 matrix value

      :arg name: the uniform name
      :type name: string
      :arg mat: A 3x3 matrix [[f, f, f], [f, f, f], [f, f, f]]
      :type mat: 3x3 matrix
      :arg transpose: set to True to transpose the matrix
      :type transpose: boolean

   .. method:: setUniformMatrix4(name, mat, transpose)

      Set a uniform with a 4x4 matrix value

      :arg name: the uniform name
      :type name: string
      :arg mat: A 4x4 matrix [[f, f, f, f], [f, f, f, f], [f, f, f, f], [f, f, f, f]]
      :type mat: 4x4 matrix
      :arg transpose: set to True to transpose the matrix
      :type transpose: boolean

   .. method:: setUniformiv(name, iList)

      Set a uniform with a list of integer values

      :arg name: the uniform name
      :type name: string
      :arg iList: a list (2, 3 or 4 elements) of integer values
      :type iList: list[integer]

   .. method:: setUniformEyef(name)

      Set a uniform with a float value that reflects the eye being render in stereo mode: 
      0.0 for the left eye, 0.5 for the right eye. In non stereo mode, the value of the uniform
      is fixed to 0.0. The typical use of this uniform is in stereo mode to sample stereo textures
      containing the left and right eye images in a top-bottom order. 

      :arg name: the uniform name
      :type name: string

   .. method:: validate()

      Validate the shader object.
